**Usage of Finished Product**

This Device can be used in education in order to assist students in their learning process by providing fast and efficient information whenever they require. Suppose an intellectual student asks a tricky question and the teacher doesn’t know the answer. It will eliminate the “Let me get back to you on that”. This can be done by asking this AI integrated voice Device. It powers both Google and Alexa. Educational institutions and educators in the higher education space across the world are looking at voice-enabled technology as a legitimately promising tool on campus, inside and outside the classroom. The use of this technology in education offers a number of advantages. From easy access to university information to real-world understanding of topics, voice technology promises to be a relevant tool for the universities and students. And at this point, it seems almost imperative. Since the advent of voice-enabled devices, the technology has smoothly entered our homes, our kitchens and our bedrooms.
Each classroom can have This Device where each student can go and ask a question to the device when they have any doubt about anything. Teachers can get real-time data from voice assistants so that they can intervene when they feel the need. Teachers can depend on this device for simplifying some classroom processes, like using timers, getting reminders of what is to be taught and note down things to be discussed afterwards without writing in a diary. Students can ask the device for information, rather looking up information on a mobile device. This would even engage them in learning and they would not get distracted by social media and can focus on studies. Both student and teacher can try to find ways to use it in particular projects and situations. Teachers can depend on this device when they need to recall a value. Say a teacher is teaching about speed of light he will roughly say that the value of ‘c’ is 300000m/s2. He can ask the device to tell the exact value that was given by Einstein and the device can tell the accurate 299792458m/s2. Student engagement is linked to graduation rates for students. The more the student is interested in learning the thing the more it will help him get the degree and the more will be the value of that. It can also be used in high schools.  Since voice assistants are perfect in spelling words correctly and mathematics, they can be used by primary school students for grammatical control like pronunciation and spelling check for a word. They can even be used to check what the words mean in our native language. Suppose a teacher is teaching a class and comes around a known native word, he/she can simply ask the device what that means and can give the class a better understanding of the context. This device can also be used as a handy calculator. Suppose a teacher is solving a problem and he needs an answer quickly like suppose he needs what is (57*69) divide by 7 rather than solving or using a calculator he can simply just ask the assistant and he will get the answer in no time. For many people reading is a difficult task and this device helps those who can't read but have the dedication to learn, be it a blind person or an uneducated person. A person can simply walk to the device and ask about information and will get the same in no time. Suppose a blind person wants to know the time instead of asking for the time from his fellow people he can simply ask the device for the time and the device will reciprocate the time to him. This device can also make things easier in educational institutes by various methods. An educator can simply ask for information that he wants to convey to his student. He also doesn't have to care about lights being on all the time. He simply can say “turn off the lights” and the lights will automatically turn off without requiring manually turning off the light and thereby being efficient. Besides information, This device can activate students and push them to search for knowledge and get a deeper understanding of things
